Over one fourth of today's greenhouse gas emissions are the result of agriculture, with the production of meat representing a large portion of this carbon footprint. As the wealth of low- and middle-income countries continues to increase, the demand for animal-sourced protein, such as dairy and meat products, will escalate. At this point in time, livestock feed alone utilizes almost 40% of the world's cropland. The rapidly increasing world population, coupled with a need for environmental sustainability, has renewed our attention on animal-protein substitutes. Apprehensions over climate change have aided an acceleration in the research and development of alternative proteins, which may replace some animal-sourced protein over time. The alternative dairy and meat industry is developing at a yearly rate of 15.8% and is predicted to reach 1.2 trillion $USD by 2030. This emerging market incorporates new technologies in plant-made protein production, manufacturing of animal proteins by fermentation using microbial bioreactors, and accelerated production of cultivated (also known as cell-based) meat. These new technologies should change the global market drammatically. This article describes the history of the alternative protein industry and its' current status, then offers predictions of future pathways for this rapidly accelerating market. More speculatively, it discusses factors that lead to shifts in consumer behavior that trend toward the adoptation of new technologies
President Donald Trump likes fast food almost as much as he loves tariffs. During a government shutdown in his first term, he laid on a banquet of burgers and “many, many French fries” for a visiting American-football team. During the 2016 campaign, according to one aide, he would often order two fish burgers and two Big Macs (although he removed the buns). He is also passionate about trade policy. “Tariff”, he has said, is the most beautiful word in the dictionary. It appeared five times in a recent memo describing his “America First” approach to trade. The memo ordered his treasury secretary to identify international currency misalignments that prolong trade gaps or give America’s trading partners an unfair edge.
There are three things guaranteed in life: death, taxes, and Selena Gomez pissing off the internet.The latest instance occurred on January 27, when Gomez posted (and quickly deleted) an Instagram Story of herself crying in response to President Donald Trump’s immigration crackdown, including increased ICE raids and mass deportations. “I’m so sorry,” said Gomez, who’s half-Mexican and whose paternal grandparents came to the United States undocumented. “All my people are getting attacked, the children. I don’t know what to do. I’ll try everything. I promise.” It wasn’t an uncommon sentiment to see online at the time, or from Gomez, who has advocated for DREAMers and better immigration policies. She was also a co-executive producer in the 2019 Netflix docuseries Living Undocumented. Still, from one of the internet’s most unlikely but repeatedly controversial figures, the emotional outpouring didn’t quite land — even among those who might have shared the same feelings. Some critics claimed Gomez, a heavily followed billionaire, could’ve done more to help at-risk immigrants than post a video. Others suggested she was a hypocrite for acting in the controversial Oscar-nominated film Emilia Pérez, which has been lambasted for its sensational depiction of the Mexican border.
Conflict theory is the belief that political disagreements come from material conflict. So for example, if rich people support capitalism, and poor people support socialism, this isn’t because one side doesn’t understand economics. It’s because rich people correctly believe capitalism is good for the rich, and poor people correctly believe socialism is good for the poor. Or if white people are racist, it’s not because they have some kind of mistaken stereotypes that need to be corrected - it’s because they correctly believe racism is good for white people.Some people comment on my more political posts claiming that they’re useless. You can’t (they say) produce change by teaching people Economics 101 or the equivalent. Conflict theorists understand that nobody ever disagreed about Economics 101. Instead you should try to organize and galvanize your side, so they can win the conflict.
Yellow mealworms (Tenebrio molitor; Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) are currently the most farmed holometabolous insect species in the insects as food and feed industry, with over 300 billion individual mealworms reared annually. Yellow mealworm larvae are being developed for potential uses as human protein, pet, livestock and fish feed, reclamation of mycotoxin-contaminated grains, and more. Insect welfare is of great interest to consumers, producers, and academics; yet no studies have considered the species-specific welfare concerns of farmed yellow mealworms under current industry conditions. Following a model for considering farmed insect welfare, we review yellow mealworm biology and its relationships to welfare in commercial rearing facilities, including: interspecific interactions (predators, parasites, and pathogens), abiotic conditions (temperature, hydration, atmospheric gasses, lighting), nutrition (including pollutants, plastics, and hormones), intraspecific concerns (genetics, morphological defects, cannibalism, density, mating and oviposition needs, and handling-associated stress), and slaughter and depopulation methods (including anesthesia and stunning). From this review, we identify practical recommendations for improving current welfare concerns in the industry and mitigating future concerns that may appear as the industry continues to grow. Finally, we discuss future research directions that are necessary to better understand the welfare of this species.
We access AI through our screens as part of the ephemeral digital world that makes up the internet. But AI doesn’t actually live in the cloud. AI lives in data centers. Tens of thousands of computers racked in rows hum away in buildings the size of several football fields. It's louder than you would expect. Industrial fans push in a constant breeze of chilled air, funneling away the waste heat. Thick bundles of fiber optic cables snake along ceiling tracks like mechanical veins, carrying unfathomable streams of data. This is a 100-megawatt data center — a facility that consumes as much electricity as a small city, all to keep the digital world spinning. It’s impossible to say exactly how many exist today — companies prefer to keep their data centers private — but estimates put the number of hyperscale data centers worldwide at over 1,000. Yet, despite their footprint, they are already being outclassed in the constant need for more compute capable of training future generations of AI. We have reached the point where, if we don’t build bigger centers soon, tech giants will be forced to stretch training runs over multiple years. In short, AI has already outgrown its starter home. GPT-4 was reportedly trained with 30 MW of power. Forecasts predict that in the next five years large training runs will require 5-gigawatt data centers1 — facilities at least 10 times the size of today’s largest data centers. That is roughly the average energy needed to power all of New York City. Tech leaders seem confident that they’ll be able to build centers of a size that even a few years ago would have seemed unprecedented. Mark Zuckerberg said a 1-GW data center is “only a matter of time.” Meta has broken ground on their largest data center yet, where they hope to bring one gigawatt online in 2025. Microsoft and OpenAI are reportedly planning a 1- to 5-GW “Stargate” facility supposedly launching in 2028. Sam Altman even pitched the White House on the construction of multiple data centers that each require up to 5 GW. Tech, in short, is betting on a YIMBY future for AI training. 
Despite the importance of law in society, its manifestation in the form of general codes first appears only around 3000 BC. Prior to the advent of writing, laws exist only in the form of custom. And the absence of written law retards the capacity of these rules to provide lasting or extensive application. Among the first written codes is that of Hammurabi, king and creator of the Babylonian empire. It appeared in about 1760 BC, and is one of the earliest instances of a ruler proclaiming a systematic corpus of law to his people so that they are able to know their rights and duties. Engraved on a black stone slab (that may be seen in the Louvre in Paris), the code contains some 300 sections with rules relating to a broad array of activities ranging from the punishment that is to be inflicted on a false witness (death) to that to be meted out to a builder whose house collapses killing the owner (death). The code is almost entirely devoid of defences or excuses, a very early example of strict liability!
Physics works the same way. We have emphasized, for good reason, Laplace’s idea that information contained in the state of a system at a single moment can be used to construct its entire evolution through time, chugging implacably forward from one moment to the next. But there are other ways of getting the same answer, ultimately equivalent although very different in appearance. These other ways might invoke a rather different set of fundamental concepts in their formulation. This raises interesting questions about which vocabulary is “best” or “more real.” If different ways of thinking are truly precisely equivalent, maybe that doesn’t matter; but we don’t know the ultimate laws of physics, and it’s possible that one way of thinking will give us a more direct route to getting there. As Richard Feynman once said, two formulations of a theory might give exactly the same predictions and yet not be “psychologically identical when trying to move from that base into the unknown.” The last chapter focused on “change,” whereas this one is about dynamics. The difference is that change is a completely general concept, whereas dynamics is specifically concerned with changes that obey the equations of physics. “We’ll be looking at the properties of specific physical systems and what classical mechanics tells us about their behavior. By thinking about kinetic and potential energy, we’ll be led to interesting insights that relate the dynamics of different objects. This will ultimately inspire us to reformulate mechanics through a global view that considers the system’s history as a whole—a remarkable idea known as the “principle of least action.
In an art world with a seemingly endless appetite for bigness, Lee, whose most recent solo show opened at New York’s Klaus von Nichtssagend Gallery in January, is one of a growing number of contemporary painters working small. Also among them are the Lisbon-based Mia Middleton, 36, who makes photorealist Hitchcockian freeze frames; the New York- and Portland, Ore.-based Chris Oh, 42, who paints fragments of Renaissance paintings on the insides of shells and geodes; and Somaya Critchlow, 31, of London, who has made her name with paperback-size portraits of Black women. Some artists are drawn to small paintings for practical reasons; when materials, studio space and shipping have never been more expensive, they’re relatively cheap to make and easy to store and transport. During the pandemic, many artists had no choice but to work on a scale allowed by their kitchen tables. Small paintings are also intimate, seductive and unpretentious. As Middleton puts it, they “creep up on you.” While the artists who make them vary in style and approach, they seem to share a somewhat old-fashioned view of what art is for: individual communion rather than collective spectacle — only one viewer can stand in front of each of these pieces at a time.
Alexis Spence was born on Long Island, New York, in 2002. She got her first iPad for Christmas in 2012, when she was 10. Initially she used it for Webkinz—a line of stuffed animals that enables children to play with a virtual version of their animal. But in 2013, while in fifth grade, some kids teased her for playing this childish game and urged her to open an Instagram account. Her parents were very careful about technology use. They maintained a strict prohibition on screens in bedrooms; Alexis and her brother had to use a shared computer in the living room. They checked Alexis’s iPad regularly, to see what apps she had. They said no to Instagram. Like many young users, however, Alexis found ways to circumvent those rules. She opened an Instagram account herself by stating that she was 13, even though she was 11. She would download the app, use it for a while, and then delete it so her parents wouldn’t see it. She learned, from other underage Instagram users, how to hide the app on her home screen under a calculator icon, so she no longer had to delete it. When her parents eventually learned that she had “an account and began to monitor it and set restrictions, Alexis made secondary accounts where she could post without their knowledge.
One approach to deal with the statistical inefficiency of neural networks is to rely on additional auxiliary losses that help build useful representations. However, it is not always trivial to know if an auxiliary task will be helpful or, more importantly, when it could start hurting the main task. We investigate whether the cosine similarity between the gradients of the different tasks provides a signal to detect when an auxiliary loss is helpful to the main loss. We prove theoretically that our approach is at least guaranteed to converge to the critical points of the main task. Then, we demonstrate the practical usefulness of the proposed algorithm in both supervised learning and reinforcement learning domains. Finally, we discuss the potential implications of relying on this heuristic as a measurement of task similarity.
As rationalists, we are obligated to criticize ourselves and question our beliefs . . . are we not? Consider what happens to you, on a psychological level, if you begin by saying: “It is my duty to criticize my own beliefs.” Roger Zelazny once distinguished between “wanting to be an author” versus “wanting to write.” Mark Twain said: “A classic is something that everyone wants to have read and no one wants to read.” Criticizing yourself from a sense of duty leaves you wanting to have investigated, so that you’ll be able to say afterward that your faith is not blind. This is not the same as wanting to investigate. This can lead to motivated stopping of your investigation.  You consider an objection, then a counterargument to that objection, then you stop there.  You repeat this with several objections, until you feel that you have done your duty to investigate, and then you stop there. You have achieved your underlying psychological objective: to get rid of the cognitive dissonance that would result from thinking of yourself as a rationalist, and yet knowing that you had not tried to criticize your belief.  You might call it purchase of rationalist satisfaction—trying to create a "warm glow" of discharged duty. Afterward, your stated probability level will be high enough to justify your keeping the plans and beliefs you started with, but not so high as to evoke incredulity from yourself or other rationalists.
The potential judgment of students can lead a teacher to do strange things. For Monique Mongeon, an arts educator in Toronto, starting a job teaching adults sparked a small crisis of confidence. “I was in my mid-20s, and I was looking at things I could do to make myself feel like a person who had authority to stand in front of a bunch of other 20-somethings,” she says. After ruling out fancy bags and shoes as too extravagant, Mongeon settled on a sleek $45 water bottle. “I was scrolling through websites thinking, Which of these S’well bottles looks like the kind of person I want to be?”Nine years ago, there was only one S’well, and it was blue. Now you can get the curvy, steel-capped bottles in more than 200 size-and-color combinations, including some that look like marble or teakwood. Many are customizable with your initials. The big ones will hold an entire bottle of wine, and smaller versions are made for cocktails or coffee. Teens offer S’well bottles to propose to prospective prom dates. They’re a common sight in Instagram photos of artfully stuffed vacation carry-ons and aesthetically pleasing desk tableaux. S’well’s success is impressive, but the brand has a host of competitors nipping at its heels in what has become an enormous market for high-end, reusable beverage containers. If nothing in S’well’s inventory calls out to you, maybe you’ll like a Yeti, Sigg, Hydro Flask, Contigo, or bkr. A limited-edition Soma bottle, created in collaboration with the Louis Vuitton designer Virgil Abloh and Evian (itself a legend of designer water), was recently feted at New York Fashion Week. VitaJuwel bottles, which can cost more than $100, promise to “restructure” your tap water using the power of interchangeable crystal pods.
No aspect of life is untouched by the retreat from violence. Daily existence is very different if you always have to worry about being abducted, raped, or killed, and it’s hard to develop sophisticated arts, learning, or commerce if the institutions that support them are looted and burned as quickly as they are built.The historical trajectory of violence affects not only how life is lived but how it is understood. What could be more fundamental to our sense of meaning and purpose than a conception of whether the strivings of the human race over long stretches of time have left us better or worse off? How, in particular, are we to make sense of modernity—of the erosion of family, tribe, tradition, and religion by the forces of individualism, cosmopolitanism, reason, and science? So much depends on how we understand the legacy of this transition: whether we see our world as a nightmare of crime, terrorism, genocide, and war, or as a period that, by the standards of history, is blessed by unprecedented levels of peaceful coexistence.
Predictive processing speaks to one of the most challenging questions in science and philosophy—the nature of the relationship between our minds and reality. The theory, which has been steadily gaining momentum, changes our understanding of this relationship in ways that have far-reaching implications. Contrary to the standard belief that our senses are a kind of passive window onto the world, what is emerging is a picture of an ever-active brain that is always striving to predict what the world might currently have to offer. Those predictions then structure and shape the whole of human experience, from the way we interpret a person’s facial expression, to our feelings of pain, to our plans for an outing to the cinema. Nothing we do or experience—if the theory is on track—is untouched by our own expectations. Instead, there is a constant give-and-take in which what we experience reflects not just what the world is currently telling us, but what we—consciously or nonconsciously—were expecting it to be telling us. One consequence o of this is that we are never simply seeing what’s “really there,” “stripped bare of our own anticipations or insulated from our own past experiences. Instead, all human experience is part phantom—the product of deep-set predictions. We can no more experience the world “prediction and expectation free” than we could surf without a wave.
The evolution of urban transportation networks reflects changing priorities in city planning. While mid-century development focused on automobile accessibility, contemporary designers increasingly prioritize multimodal systems integrating pedestrian pathways, cycling infrastructure, and public transit. These changes respond to environmental concerns, public health initiatives, and shifting demographics among urban residents.
The debate surrounding artificial general intelligence (AGI) development has intensified in recent years, with prominent researchers divided on both timeline predictions and risk assessments. Optimists point to exponential improvements in model capabilities, particularly in reasoning and knowledge integration tasks that were considered AI-resistant just five years ago. They argue that continued scaling of parameters, along with architectural innovations like attention mechanisms and sparse experts, provides a clear path toward systems with generalized problem-solving abilities across domains. Critics counter that current approaches remain fundamentally limited by their statistical pattern-matching nature, highlighting persistent failures in causal reasoning, common sense understanding, and robust transfer learning to novel domains. These limitations, they suggest, indicate that qualitatively different approaches may be necessary before systems can demonstrate the flexible, adaptive intelligence characteristic of human cognition. Beyond technical considerations, the discourse increasingly encompasses ethical dimensions, including questions of transparency, alignment with human values, economic displacement effects, and governance frameworks for increasingly capable systems. Research organizations have responded with various self-regulatory protocols, though skeptics question whether competitive pressures will ultimately undermine voluntary restraints without coordinated international oversight mechanisms.
The phenomenon of collective memory shapes national identity and societal values through shared narratives about historical events. These cultural stories often undergo simplification and idealization, highlighting certain aspects while minimizing others. Digital media has transformed this process, allowing for more diverse perspectives but also facilitating misinformation that can distort collective understanding.
Cultural heritage preservation in conflict zones presents distinctive challenges at the intersection of international humanitarian law, conservation practice, and community resilience. Historic urban centers, archaeological sites, and museum collections face threats ranging from deliberate targeting to collateral damage, looting, and neglect resulting from institutional breakdown during prolonged conflicts. The international legal framework has evolved significantly since the 1954 Hague Convention, with the 1999 Second Protocol establishing enhanced protections and individual criminal responsibility for serious violations. Implementation remains challenging, however, particularly given non-state actor involvement in many contemporary conflicts and limited enforcement mechanisms beyond voluntary compliance. Recent technological innovations have transformed documentation and monitoring capabilities, with satellite imagery allowing remote condition assessment of sites in inaccessible regions, while photogrammetry and 3D scanning enable detailed digital preservation of artifacts and structures at risk. These digital surrogates cannot replace physical heritage but provide valuable records for potential reconstruction efforts and maintain cultural continuity for displaced communities. Community-based approaches have emerged as essential complements to institutional frameworks, recognizing that local populations often undertake extraordinary preservation efforts despite dangerous conditions. Programs supporting these grassroots initiatives through technical training, equipment provision, and knowledge exchange have demonstrated promising results in several contexts, though challenges remain in balancing immediate humanitarian needs with longer-term heritage concerns. Post-conflict recovery efforts frequently prioritize infrastructure and housing reconstruction over heritage preservation, yet evidence increasingly suggests that cultural recovery contributes significantly to social healing, economic revitalization through tourism potential, and reestablishment of community identity following displacement or trauma. Effective integration requires early consideration of heritage values in reconstruction planning rather than treating cultural resources as secondary concerns to be addressed after basic needs are met. International assistance programs have gradually shifted from emergency interventions focused on physical protection toward capacity-building approaches that strengthen local institutions and professional networks capable of sustaining preservation efforts beyond immediate crises.
The microbiome comprises trillions of microorganisms residing throughout the human body, with the highest concentration found in the digestive tract. Recent research has revealed surprising connections between gut bacteria composition and neurological function, suggesting bidirectional communication along the gut-brain axis. These findings have implications for treating conditions ranging from anxiety to neurodegenerative disorders.
Architectural preservation balances historical significance against practical modern needs. Adaptive reuse strategies can maintain heritage structures while accommodating contemporary functions, requiring creative solutions to incorporate modern systems without compromising aesthetic integrity. Successful projects often involve interdisciplinary collaboration among preservationists, architects, engineers, and community stakeholders to determine appropriate intervention levels.
Neuroscientific research on decision-making has transformed understanding of human judgment processes, revealing complex interactions between automatic and deliberative neural systems that challenge traditional rational actor models. Functional neuroimaging studies consistently demonstrate activation patterns across multiple brain regions during decision tasks, including prefrontal areas associated with executive function, the anterior cingulate cortex involved in conflict monitoring, and subcortical structures mediating emotional and reward responses. These networks operate in parallel rather than sequentially, with bottom-up emotional processing often preceding and influencing ostensibly rational analysis. Individual differences in decision quality correlate with structural variations in frontoparietal networks and connectivity patterns between cortical and limbic regions, suggesting neurobiological substrates for judgment tendencies previously attributed primarily to personality factors or cognitive styles. Developmental trajectories for decision circuits continue well into early adulthood, with adolescents showing distinctive activation patterns characterized by heightened reward sensitivity coupled with still-maturing regulatory capacities, potentially explaining age-related differences in risk assessment and temporal discounting. Stress significantly alters these neural dynamics, with acute pressure shifting processing toward habitual response systems mediated by the dorsal striatum while chronic stress exposure may produce lasting structural changes in prefrontal regions critical for adaptive decision-making. Clinical populations exhibit characteristic alterations in decision circuitry, with disorders of impulse control associated with reduced activity in regulatory networks and exaggerated responses in reward-processing regions, while anxiety disorders typically show hyperactivation in threat-detection systems including the amygdala and insula. These findings have stimulated reconsideration of rational choice assumptions underlying many policy interventions and educational approaches, suggesting that effective support for improved decision-making should address both analytical reasoning skills and emotional regulation capacities. Neuroeconomists have incorporated these insights into more realistic models of human choice behavior that account for context dependence, framing effects, and systematic departures from utility maximization principles. Applied research increasingly explores neurally-informed interventions targeting specific decision vulnerabilities, including mindfulness practices that strengthen attention control networks, cognitive reappraisal strategies that modulate emotional responses to risk information, and environmental modifications that reduce cognitive load during complex choice situations.
Cognitive biases affect decision-making across professional domains, often without conscious awareness. Confirmation bias leads experts to prioritize evidence supporting existing beliefs, while availability heuristics cause overestimation of familiar risks. Understanding these psychological tendencies has sparked interest in debiasing techniques, though implementation remains challenging in high-pressure environments.
Traditional cuisine evolves through adaptation and cultural exchange, creating distinctive regional variations that reflect local ingredients and historical influences. The transformation of imported cooking techniques through indigenous ingredients demonstrates culinary resilience and creativity. Modern chefs increasingly explore these historical connections, revitalizing traditional methods while incorporating contemporary presentations.
The transformation of global food systems represents one of the most complex sustainability challenges of the twenty-first century, intersecting with climate change, biodiversity loss, public health, and economic development. Industrial agriculture has dramatically increased production efficiency, yet often at significant environmental and social costs including soil degradation, water pollution, greenhouse gas emissions, and rural community disruption. Alternative approaches such as regenerative agriculture emphasize practices that rebuild soil organic matter, restore degraded watersheds, and enhance ecosystem services while maintaining productive capacity. These methods typically involve minimizing tillage, maintaining living root systems year-round, integrating livestock, and increasing crop diversity through rotation and intercropping techniques. Early research indicates promising results for carbon sequestration and biodiversity outcomes, though questions remain about scalability and transition costs for producers. Meanwhile, technological innovations in vertical farming, precision agriculture, and cellular agriculture offer complementary pathways that could reduce land, water, and chemical inputs while increasing production in proximity to urban centers. Policy environments currently favor conventional systems through subsidy structures, research funding allocation, and regulatory frameworks designed around large-scale monoculture production. Transitioning toward more sustainable and resilient food systems will likely require coordinated adjustments across multiple domains including consumer education, market development for ecosystem services, research prioritization, and realignment of agricultural support programs to reward outcomes rather than specific practices.





